---
layout: post
title: Week 1: 
---

### My Thoughts on Open Source Development
When I hear the term "open source", I think of a transparent, community built project that enables anyone to contribute. Some advantages of open source development are that it could be more cost-effective, build communities, and give developers a good way of improving their programming skills. However, some problems with open source are that it could increase vulnerabilities, could be difficult to manage at large scales, and could result in less experienced contributors making detrimental changes. I decided to register for a class about open source development as I am a fan of many open source projects (especially those pertaining to web development), and think that contributing to open source projects could be a great way for me to improve my skills as a developer.

### Favorite Open Source Projects
**p5.js**
p5.js is a JavaScript library for creative coding. As someone with a background in visual arts and design, this library was what initially got me interested in coding. It makes coding easy and intuitive for even those without a technical background.

**Visual Studio Code**
Visual Studio Code is my IDE of choice for web development. It has tons of different plugins and provides keyboard shortcuts to streamline your development process.

**React.js**
React.js is my favorite JavaScript library. The best part of this library is that it enables you to better organize and reuse code through components.

**Wikipedia**
Although some people criticize Wikipedia for being untrustworthy, I feel like it is a great place to find information about a topic quickly. They have a great mission of striving to create and distribute a free encyclopedia to anyone and everyone.