---
layout: post
title: Week 5 - Social Good Videos, My Contributions
---

### Thoughts on Social Good Videos
I decided to watch the social good videos about food/agriculture because I'm a massive foodie. I remember hearing about the global food crisis caused by the rapidly increasing population, so it was interesting to hear that technology can help solve this problem. Because agriculture is very different from technology, I 
<!--more-->
originally thought the only way to effectively solve this problem was by innovating biology and chemistry to improve crops' resilience and help them grow more efficiently. 

While watching the video, I was shocked to hear that the average age of farmers in the US is 58 years old. This was much higher than I anticipated, but it made sense considering that many people are moving from more rural areas to bigger cities for new opportunities. This demonstrated how crucial agricultural innovations are going to be for preventing food shortages. I was also shocked by how young some of these students utilizing and contributing to open-source agricultural technologies were--especially since I never even touched code before coming to college. It made me realize how crucial our younger generation is in helping solve this crisis and made me realize the value of open-source technologies. The fact that the project is open source enables anyone, even high schoolers, to contribute to technology to speed up innovation and solve a crucial problem.

### How I Could Contribute
Although I watched the social good videos about food and agriculture, I became more interested in open-source educational resources after our discussion because I realized I use a lot of open-source educational resources myself. For instance, I used FreeCodeCamp to learn about web development for the first time and Khan Academy to study for my AP exams. I think these resources are helpful not only to those who are facing a financial barrier but to every learner. Open-source projects receive suggestions and contributions from all different types of people and everyone has something they can teach and learn. Because I have personally benefitted from these resources, I am planning on contributing to projects like FreeCodeCamp. I am a big fan of this resource and I feel that it would feel very meaningful to help level out educational inequality through contributions.

### Updates On My Contributions
Things are going pretty well with my contributions. I was quite intimidated joining this class at first as I never made open source contributions before. However, through taking small steps to contribute, I feel like I was able to ease into open-source development. For instance, I started by finding a few broken links on our course site and reporting the issues on the course site GitHub. 

### My Challenges and Favorite Contribution
I liked TickTock, one of the browser add-on projects, because of the fun illustrative UI. Because of this, I decided to contribute to the project by reporting that the label on the switch button, which allows the user to switch from focus to break mode, was unintuitive. The team responded with an encouraging response and told me I could implement the suggestion. I implemented this change by making the button dynamic (displays "break" if the current mode is focus, displays "focus" if the current mode is break) for clarity, and submitted a pull request. I think the biggest challenge for me in this process was making my first pull request. It was my first time contributing code suggestions so I was worried that I was going to mess up. However, I think this was also my proudest contribution as it made me realize that I could have an impact on projects I like and care about! My pull request was approved and I am excited to keep contributing to new open-source projects. I think starting with smaller projects was a good step in familiarising myself with open-source and I want to continue building this confidence and eventually start contributing to bigger projects like FreeCodeCamp.