---
layout: post
title: Week 7 - Origins of Open Source and Our Group’s Progress
---

### Origins of open source
I was shocked to learn that the event that inspired open source was Stallman and hackers at the MIT AI Lab being refused access to the source code for the software of a laser printer. This made me think two things: one that it might be fun to "hack" or modify software I use at home to make things more convenient, and second 
<!--more-->
that small events or realizations can grow into something as big as open source! I also found it interesting that there is a company called RedHat that made open source big business. Before I took this class, I initially had the impression that a lot of open-source projects were not very profitable (mostly relying on donations and community support), so I was surprised to hear this. I think it could be interesting to research open-source projects that I personally use (React, VSCode, Heroicons, p5.js, etc.) and learn what their revenue model is like. Finally, I found it interesting that the people who work in open source come from many different backgrounds. For instance, Larry Wall has a linguistics degree, Jimmy Wales has a finance degree, and Karen Sandler has a law degree. I find these people's contributions admirable as I feel like open source contributed a lot for both humanitarian causes and technological development, and reading about them made me realize that even the origins of open source were the product of a collaborative community effort.

### Our group's process
Although our group hasn't started making open-source contributions yet, I feel like we made a lot of progress in planning our next steps. As Sam is specifically interested in education and we were all open to doing a project in HTML/CSS/JS, we decided to contribute to freeCodeCamp! We made this decision after discussing projects we like and projects in the project evaluation repository--including uBlock, freeCodeCamp, p5.js, Anubis, and Audacity. Although we were initially concerned that it could be difficult to contribute to freeCodeCamp because the issues that are reported get resolved very quickly, we looked through the contribution guidelines and found out that we could also contribute components for their UI library and lessons for their curriculum! Contributing lessons to freeCodeCamp also seemed less intimidating than we initially thought because they already have a template for rendering the lessons and all of the lessons are written in a markdown file. Based on these interesting options, we decided to contribute items in order of increasing difficulty/complexity: answering forum questions/fixing typos and documentations -> contributing to the UI library -> creating a lesson. I think this would help us ease into the project and give us time to join the online community before creating something as complex as a lesson plan. We finalized these decisions during our meeting on Friday and agreed to set up our development environment, familiarize ourselves with Tailwind CSS and UI library contribution guidelines, and make two small contributions each by next Wednesday.