---
layout: post
title: Week 8 - Making Our First Contributions
---

### Plans and Setup
My group started making our first contributions to freeCodeCamp. I felt intimidated as it was my first time contributing to a large project used by millions of users. Because of this, as I discussed in my last week's blog post, my group decided to make simple contributions (fixing typos, responding to forum posts, etc.) this
<!--more-->
week. We started off by setting up the development environment locally. Although I don't have a lot of experience making open-source contributions, I found this process easy because freeCodeCamp had a detailed step-by-step guide for installing the development environment. We also looked at freeCodeCamp's guidelines for contributing UI and read the documentation for Tailwind, the CSS framework used by freeCodeCamp.

### Contributions and Challenges
After reading through some documentation, I started looking for easy issues I could contribute to. Unfortunately, although freeCodeCamp had a label for "first timers only" issues, there were no open issues with this tag. Because of this, I instead decided to contribute by commenting on the community forum. I responded to two forum posts: one asking for recommendations on what projects they can do to practice, and another asking for help on one of the freeCodeCamp challenges. Although I was able to comment and contribute to these forum discussions, I started understanding why past freeCodeCamp groups had issues contributing to the project. Even when I sorted the forum posts by most recently added, other community members would respond to these questions in mere minutes. Because of this, I found it hard to find posts I could contribute to, especially as someone newer to freeCodeCamp.

### Next Steps
My group decided to up the challenge for next week by setting the goals of continuing to learn Tailwind and contributing to a UI component by our next meeting. We also set a goal of looking through freeCodeCamp's lesson plans to familiarize ourselves with them and think of ways we can create one of our own.