---
layout: post
title: Week 6 - Thoughts on Open Source Projects
---

### Thoughts on projects I looked at
I liked a lot of the projects I looked at so far and feel excited about contributing to them. I was honestly really intimidated at first because the first project I analyzed closely for project evaluation was OpenEmu. This project is coded in Swift, C, and Objective-C--which are all languages I am not as comfortable with, and I had no idea how I could solve any of the technical issues that were reported. 

However, I felt a lot more excited after analyzing freeCodeCamp and p5.js, which are projects I have used and considered contributing to for a while. Both projects are built using languages I am familiar with (JavaScript, TypeScript) and are actually resources that are aimed towards helping people learn how to code! FreeCodeCamp's mission is to help people learn to code, build projects, and earn certifications for free while p5's mission is to provide a creative coding library to make coding accessible and inclusive for artists, designers, educators, beginners, and anyone else. I feel like these missions are really reflected in not only the project itself, but also the open-source community behind it. Both projects had a lot of clear documentation to help people of all levels contribute to the project. Additionally, I liked that both projects seemed to be backed by helpful, friendly, and encouraging communities. I think the main difference between the two is that freeCodeCamp is faster-paced, but I think I would be happy and learn a lot from contributing to either!

Another project that sounded interesting was Spicetify. I remember seeing a video of it on Instagram but did not know that it was open source. I think it could also be fun to contribute to this as I am a big fan of design and front-end development. It reminded me that it is possible to contribute to a project through not only bug fixes but also feature additions.

### What I am excited about
I think the thing I am most excited about regarding working on an open-source project is getting to work on a large project. Most of my past internships have been for UI/UX Design and the projects I worked on have been on a smaller scale, so I feel like I could learn a lot about navigating larger projects, communicating effectively, and utilizing good coding practices through contributing to open source projects. Additionally, I am excited to make improvements to projects I care about. I have been using projects like freeCodeCamp, p5.js, and Visual Studio Code for a long time (p5.js, specifically, is what originally led me to double major in CS), so I would love to give back to the community by making improvements to them--and possibly even propose and make improvements I've been wanting to see. Finally, I am excited about the opportunity to get better at potentially improving my JavaScript/TypeScript skills, especially since few CS classes at NYU allow me to utilize these languages.

### Potential challenges
I feel like there will definitely be many challenges since I am still relatively new to open-source contributions. I think the biggest challenge would be knowing how to navigate a big project to find and address issues. As mentioned, I previously only had experience with smaller projects, so I think it could be a challenge to make improvements to a larger project--especially while following good coding conventions and possibly the project's coding style. I think it could also be difficult to implement improvements to the project efficiently as I am not sure how the bigger projects may leverage code reuse for example.

I think another challenge would be finding issues I can realistically work on. Although the projects I examined (p5.js, freeCodeCamp), support beginner contributors and have "first timers only" labels, I noticed a lot of these issues are resolved very quickly, and a lot of the open issues tend to be more technically challenging to address. I am going to try to overcome this by looking at the project websites to identify areas of improvement and trying to resolve these issues on my own. A lot of larger open-source projects also have community chats (primarily Discord), so I am also planning on utilizing that to seek help when needed.