---
layout: post
title: Week 8 - Making Our First Contributions
---

### Plans and Setup
This week, my group and I started making our first contributions to freeCodeCamp. I felt intimidated as it was my first time contributing to a large project used by millions of users. Because of this, as I discussed in my last week's blog post, my group decided to make simple contributions (fixing typos, responding to 
<!--more-->
forum posts, etc.) during our first week. We started off by setting up the development environment locally. Although I don't have a lot of experience making open-source contributions, I found this process easy because freeCodeCamp had a detailed step-by-step guide for installing the development environment. We also looked at freeCodeCamp's guidelines for contributing UI and read the documentation for Tailwind, the CSS framework used by freeCodeCamp.

### Contributions and Challenges
After reading through some documentation, I started looking for easy issues I could contribute to. Unfortunately, although freeCodeCamp had a label for "first timers only" issues, there were no open issues with this tag. Because of this, I instead decided to contribute by commenting on the community forum. I responded to two forum posts: one asking for recommendations on what projects they can do to practice, and another asking for help on one of the freeCodeCamp challenges. Although I was able to comment and contribute to these forum discussions, I started understanding why past freeCodeCamp groups had issues contributing to the project. Even when I sorted the forum posts by most recently added, other community members would respond to these questions in mere minutes. Because of this, I found it hard to find posts I could contribute to, especially as someone newer to freeCodeCamp.

### Next Steps
As we were able to get our feet wet by contributing to easier issues, my group decided to up the challenge by continuing to learn Tailwind and contribute to UI components by our next meeting. We also wanted to take time to look through freeCodeCamp's lesson plans to familiarize ourselves with them, and potentially think of ways we can create one of our own.