---
layout: post
title: Week 4 - Browser Extension
---

### FocusPal
Our group work went smoothly as each team member put in their best effort and I am happy with how our extension turned out. I think I learned that I like to lead groups and contribute ideas. I was able to assign some tasks to group members to better organize our workflow and came up with the idea for our extension. As mentioned 
<!--more-->
in my previous blog post, I set up the repository for the extension, designed the UI and assets using Figma, and implemented the layout and styling using HTML and CSS. I also added small JS snippets for interactivity. Additionally, after looking at other groups' repositories, I decided to update our README to be more engaging and welcoming through addition of friendly text and images. I thought this could encourage potential contributors to feel interested in our project. I enjoyed working asynchronously through text messages with my team, but I also thought it could have been helpful for us to work synchronously for some parts. For instance, I think it could've been helpful for us to have a meeting at the beginning of the project to possibly brainstorm more ideas and distribute our workload. Overall, it was fun getting to create a browser extension for the first time, and I am excited to create more in the future!

### Favorite Extensions
Although I wasn't able to attend class on Wednesday due to a conflicting interview schedule, I was able to download and test out other teams' projects and had fun looking at everyone's ideas. I especially liked the TikTock extension because I am a big fan of Pomodoro timers and I found the design of the extension cute. I also liked Insult Reminders, which I thought had a pretty funny and unique concept.