---
layout: post
title: Week 12 - Thoughts on Tidepool + FCC Updates
---

### Christopher Snider's Presentation

I found the presentation by Christopher Snider interesting as I found the mission and capabilities of Tidepool to be compelling--the fact that a phone app can control insulin pumps is amazing! Although it is common for people to feel pride from working on open source projects, it seems like even compared to those working on enterprise open source projects, Snider feels a lot of pride in his work knowing he is helping clinics and diabetes patients through Tidepool. Another thing I found interesting was that the team at Tidepool is planning to expand their project to new platforms like watches, and is in the process of launching a paid premium version of the app. He mentioned that launching the premium version of the app is possible because the app built a reputation of premium quality software and reliability.

A quote I really liked from the presentation is that "security through obscurity is not security." A common concern with open source projects is how they handle sensitive data like medical records, and I liked Tidepool's approach of utilizing radical transparency to build trust and security. Christopher Snider mentioned that open source can even be more secure as having an open framework for a project means that you have more eyes to identify holes and vulnerabilities. 

I think what's also great about projects like Tidepool is that they have the liberty of not having to consider stakeholder opinions. In this way, I feel like projects like Tidepool can experiment with new features or ideas that wouldn't be possible under enterprise settings. However, a concern with open source projects like Tidepool seems to be funding. As it can be difficult to sustain the project with donations and grants, Tidepool has multiple revenue streams including getting voluntary user data donation and creating a premium version of the app. I think this is one of the challenges that non-enterprise open source projects have to face that can require time and the gradual building of reputation.

### Updates and Challenges

Our group continued to make contributions individually and report them to one another. Although we wanted to work on an issue Sam found that could enable us to make 5 separate pull requests, we, unfortunately, did not get clarifications about this issue when we asked. However, we did discuss that we have been seeing more help wanted issues, so we are feeling more optimistic about being able to contribute to the repository.

I personally have been working on answering forum questions and creating pull requests. I added a statistics component for the portfolio redesign. This was intimidating as I had to create a whole new component for this pull request and make changes across multiple files. As I wasn't getting any responses I @ someone who was working on the issue and asked for feedback. Unfortunately, I got a bot response saying that you shouldn't ping people in pull request discussions as it could be considered rude. Although I felt bad for doing this, I am glad that I was able to learn about an important open source etiquette through this experience. I currently have to make changes to resolve failing test cases, but am lost as changing test cases is causing some seemingly unrelated tests to fail. I am going to continue to try and resolve these next week. I think one of my challenges is that I feel demoralized when I get non-positive feedback or my pull requests don't get merged right away. I have to remind myself that I need to take feedback as an opportunity to grow, and that it is natural to make mistakes--especially when you are new to something. 

I was also able to make two additional pull requests to the freeCodeCamp repository. I got some feedback on my pull requests and updated them to make my code more effective. One of them got merged while the other one is still awaiting review. I think another one of my challenges is that it feels very stressful to make pull requests because I know that I don't have a lot of time before another user may start working on it. I feel like especially because of the size of freeCodeCamp, I am not able to take my time to come up with most optimal solutions while considering all edge cases. I think I have to remind myself to slow down and I think this issue should get better as I continue to familiarize myself with the repository.