---
layout: post
title: Week 11 - Open Source in Business and Group Updates
---

### Open Source in Business
It was interesting to learn about industries' use of open-source technologies--especially because I am a fan of open-source technologies like Visual Studio Code, TypeScript, and Android, all projects created by big companies. I learned that while open-source is still a foreign concept to many companies, 
<!--more-->
InnerSource is a good gateway for them to delve into open-source. InnerSource can break down silos, encourage collaboration within different teams, and help companies understand the benefits of open-source practices.

Additionally, one of the most interesting things I learned is that one benefit of companies making their projects open-source is higher quality code: engineers become more conscious about others looking at their code and therefore write better code and documentation. I also learned that businesses also benefit from small open-source projects. For instance, Gil mentioned that there are instances where a big business like Amazon utilizes small open-source projects and profits. In this case, Amazon may benefit from your project without the open-source project creator being able to profit from their use. It seems important to consider how industries may use your project before making it open-source.

Finally, I was surprised to see that open-source is a concept also used in non-tech industries like film. For instance, animation studios create open-source programs to produce better animations. Although I was initially concerned that this would make the company less competitive against other animation studios, I learned that these practices can help the animation industry as a whole. Animation studios want to pull engineers from not just the animation industry but across all industries, and creating open-source programs allows them to improve and maintain their software. Additionally, making a program open-source means that people can build transferrable skills, and thus easily move between animation companies. This makes me wonder what the animation industry was like before open-source software like Blender became popular.

Overall, I learned that open-source is a concept utilized across many industries due to benefits like reduced silos, improved collaboration, better code quality, and transferrable skills. Especially compared to the past, businesses seem to be putting in a lot of effort to strengthen their relationship with the open-source world--both giving and receiving benefits from open-source projects in the process.

### Group Updates
Compared to last week, my group is feeling more confident about contributing to freeCodeCamp. We all submitted at least one pull request each, and I got two of my pull requests merged (one for freeCodeCamp, and one for freeCodeCamp design style guide). Sam also found a single issue that could require 5 separate pull requests, so my group has been discussing how we can tackle this together. Other than that, we have mostly been working on issues and forum contributions individually while discussing our findings and obstacles as a group to contribute more effectively.

### Surprises and Challenges
Although this was a concern even before we started working on freeCodeCamp, our group was surprised by the extent of how fast issues come and go. Because of this, we tried to be more diligent about regularly checking the repository for new issues. Another big challenge I faced was navigating freeCodeCamp. Most of my past projects have been created from scratch, so it felt difficult to navigate through the large, complex repository and understand what areas of the codebase I had to address to solve issues. Because of that, it took me around an hour to make just two lines of changes for my first contribution (removing the view project button from Python certificate projects)! However, I think I'm getting more and more used to freeCodeCamp's project structure and each pull request is feeling less intimidating. Even though I am making slower progress than I would with a smaller project, it feels fulfilling to know that my code is contributing to a site used by so many users and I think this is good practice for getting used to working on a big project.