---
layout: post
title: Week 15 - The Final Stretch!
---

### Thoughts on Presentations

Seeing other groups' presentations and learning about their different experiences with contributing to open source was fun! It felt quite relieving that most groups initially struggled to contribute to their open-source projects before easing into them and getting better at contributing. It reminded me that it's
<!--more-->
natural for things to be difficult at first and that we shouldn't be harsh on ourselves when we make mistakes. It also felt satisfying to see other groups' merged pull requests. I especially like the Spicetify group's contributions, as I found their starry night theme with animated shooting stars cool and visually appealing. Additionally, viewing the presentations made me understand that there are different challenges that come with different open-source projects. For instance, I felt quite intimidated by Open Food Facts as it seemed like the group faced challenges because of Perl, the project's language. It reiterated the importance of getting to know a project before diving into contributing.

### My Group's Progress

This week, my group focused on finishing our presentation slides and rehearsing. Because we mostly worked on issues individually, we designed our presentation structure to showcase both group and individual accomplishments. Getting to compile our thoughts and accomplishments in our presentation made me feel proud of how far we had come. Considering how lost we all felt about freeCodeCamp at the start, I feel like we all learned a lot about the open-source contribution process, navigating a codebase as large as freeCodeCamp's, and open-source etiquettes. I also feel more confident in my abilities to contribute to a production-level codebase. I think I could apply many things I learned through this project when working in the corporate world as a software engineer. Overall, I enjoyed my experience working on freeCodeCamp and am considering continuing to contribute to open-source projects in the future!