---
layout: post
title: Week 10 - Realization, Failure, and Success 
---

### Our Big Realization
This week, I wanted to make my first pull request. I started off by doing some freeCodeCamp challenges and looking through the project repository to familiarize myself with the project. I thought that it would be easy to contribute to freeCodeCamp because there were so many (over 250) open issues. Unfortunately, 
<!--more-->
I found out that just because an issue was open didn't mean that it was open for contribution. When I looked through past open and closed issues to understand how contributing worked on freeCodeCamp, I realized that the only issues you can actually contribute to are those labeled with "help wanted" or "first timers only" labels. One of my group members, Ben, also ran into this same issue as he spent days working on a pull request, just to have it blocked with this comment "Only issues with the help wanted or first timers only label are open for contributing." This was the moment we realized that contributing to freeCodeCamp was going to be harder than we thought.

### Failed Attempt at Contributing
Once I sorted the issues to find ones with both the "scope: UI" label and a "helped wanted" or "first timers only" label, I couldn't find any open issues. I found another simple issue called "Change "a href" to "an href"". I researched online to find which variant was more commonly used and commented, ""An href" and "an HTML" seem more commonly used. I'm new to contributing so I would love to work on this issue!" I kept refreshing this thread to see if it became open for contribution as the issue had a "status: waiting triage" tag when I commented. Unfortunately, by the time I noticed that the issue tag changed to "first timers only", another contributor made a pull request and the issue was closed. Some of our initial concerns with freeCodeCamp were coming to the surface, and I realized that if I wanted to contribute to this project, I was going to have to be more on top of tracking issues.

### Success
Although contributing to freeCodeCamp was harder than I anticipated, I was still able to find an open issue I could contribute to: "Help with the Portfolio redesign." This issue was interesting to me as I have past experience with Figma and UX Design. I read through the issue discussion and saw that one user asked for a mobile mockup of the new portfolio page. I commented that I would be happy to work on creating this, and got started designing on Figma. Although another user also created a mobile version of this page, we actually benefitted from having both versions of the design: we were able to talk about the pros and cons of both of our designs and come up with improvements together. This made me realize the value of open-source collaboration. Based on this discussion, the original issue poster (SWE at freeCodeCamp) edited the portfolio redesign Figma file to include improvements based on my design--which felt really cool--and I had a freeCodeCamp contributor reach out directly to me on LinkedIn. We discussed the issue together and he actually helped me understand freeCodeCamp's code structure, which I was  grateful for!