---
layout: post
title: Week 13 - Thoughts on The Cathedral and the Bazaar + FCC Updates
---

### Thoughts on The Cathedral and the Bazaar

The discussion about the lessons from The Cathedral and the Bazzar was interesting as it made me realize that there is more than just good technical skills that are important to help you build a high-quality software project. My favorite lessons weren't affected by our discussion and opinions--in fact, the discussions
<!--more-->
only reemphasized the importance of my favorite lessons. Our discussion made me realize how beneficial it is that you are working on a project that you genuinely care about, or could benefit from, as it could keep you motivated and mean that your project could also "scratch other people's personal itches". It also made me realize how important it is to take some time to think about what you are going to code and what approaches you are going to take from a higher view, rather than diving straight into it.

### Group Updates

Our group continued to make pretty good progress on our final project. At this point, I think we're all comfortable working on the repository. Sam was able to report a large issue based on multiple steps in freeCodeCamp's "Learn String Manipulation by Building a Cipher" lesson, so we are going to work on creating pull requests for this issue together. Since we are working on this issue together, and the issue requires multiple steps and pull requests, our main challenge is dividing up the work and communicating our progress to one another to make sure we aren't working on the same issues. There is also a chance then other freeCodeCamp contributors may make pull requests for the issue, so we should try our best to keep track of the issue. However, I feel optimistic that the collaboration will go pretty smoothly.

Regarding, individual updates, I made additional commits to a large pull request I made on freeCodeCamp based on comments I received. I already got my pull request approved by one reviewer, and I am hoping it gets merged soon. As I feel comfortable working on freeCodeCamp now, my challenge is to stay consistent and on top of tracking new issues I can contribute to. I would also like to make more contributions to non-freeCodeCamp projects, so I am hoping to contribute to our class website.